Okay, we are
live.
Morning. I think what we're going to do
today here, I'm going to check on some
experiments real quick and then for the
next hour, hour and a half or so, uh I'm
going to just go through all of our
environments, get some nice clean
configs for them. run some experiments,
kind of work towards having a very easy
benchmark suite for the next release and
we'll see from
there. Let's check back in on this. Ah,
okay. So, look at
this. And this is interesting, right?
So, is this curve
shallower? It looks to me like this
might eventually intersect.
So, we'll have to see about
that. And then right
here, these two are like virtually on
top of each other. I
think. Yeah, virtually on top of each
other.
Okay. So, it was a little better early
on. No big deal. It's about the same.
Let me think what the best way to do
this
is. I think we push this
So we can do uh
multiple multiple runs at the same time
on different boxes.
So this is now up there. And what we're
going to do is we're going to just pull
this on a couple different boxes and I
think in parallel we're just going to go
through a few different environments,
try to run some good baselines and uh
see if we can get like good trained
models just one right right after the
another for most of our
tasks. So I've got puffer box four here.
I think this is free. Yeah, this is
free. We also give access to these boxes
to uh contributors by the way. So if any
folks are interested in contributing,
working on some cool stuff, that is a
thing that we
do. Uh I got to pull this first and then
we can push that.
zero.
Where did our box
go? And then we will get our our sweep
crafts
up and uh I think we'll just start like
recording on here.
And okay, there's our first one right
there. So, this one is pretty much fine
out of the box. maybe log interval so we
get a cleaner curve or something. But
this is pretty much fine out of the
box. See if this works.
Okay, so this one doesn't work. There's
some sort of bug
here. This is probably a batch size
shenanigans, I would
imagine. Uh, I want to see what happens
if I just like do this.
Okay, that's
running
multiprocessing. Enduro is such a cool
end. It doesn't make any sense for us to
have it in the state where uh we're not
actively using
it. Okay. So, this is not optimizing or
anything here.
If I do this, it should work,
right? See if that
trains. Got breakout. Breakout seems to
be running.
This is
Enduro breakout here.
Enduro just to
pass. Enduro score variable is not good.
it
uh you want like days completed or
whatever. So there it is. You can see
it's completing uh the first day right
here.
should go straight up.
snake as
well. Okay, so this is training. It's
just not
uh we'll have to get bet on uh optimal
hypers and stuff. I mean, I'm sure he
has them.
I probably just removed him from there,
huh? What do you have gamma as? That's
the only one that really
matters. He has gamma as
N7. So, we might want to retry that with
slightly lower gamma.
So this is working like uh these days
completed this is already very good
per we'll get all of these running first
and then I think what we'll do is we'll
go through and I want to get like a
normalized score variable for every
single end so you can get them all on
one plot as like 0 to one or whatever.
stays completed. Graph is
good. Uh is this breakout? This looks
like breakout crashing back down a
little
bit. So, not ideal here. I think that
there is still some uh something to fix
with our experience buffer, though. I
just don't want to do that first thing
in the morning here because that's
actually going to be like really fiddly.
So, I'd rather just run a bunch of these
experiments, get all of these in
generally a good spot. Um, we'll see if
we can get that normalized score
variable, get like a nice run script,
and then we will have a much more
powerful way to check
on potential
issues. We're at 93 mil, 94. That's
decent. Thing we're looking at with
Snake is whether it keeps going up to
like 100ish or 97
maybe. Okay. So, Enduro continuing to
clear more and more days is good.
Um, the collisions are going to keep
going up because it's living for longer.
I believe this is a 40,000 step episode.
Enduro is actually a very long
game. It's self similar, but it's very
long. Okay, so far so good
there. This will be done in a minute.
Um, we can also kind of just start on
the normalized score stuff while we
wait. So, my idea
there my idea there is to just add
like normalized score. Um,
Yeah, that's
good. Is there a max
score? Where does max score get set? I
don't think this thing gets set.
Oh yeah. Okay. It gets set really janky
right now, but it does get
set. This should up. This should cast a
float, right?
Same thing
here. And we do have a max score there
as
well. All
right. How we doing on
snake? Okay. We take a dip towards the
end here, which is not
good. So, I definitely think that
there's something screwy with um our
episode index
logic, and that's definitely going to be
one of the main things we'll have to
test. It's not like totally crashing
runs, it seems. Um but it's not ideal.
Now it's a bit tough to figure
out like max length in snake right.
I think what we have to do with the ones
that have like no technical max is we
just pick a score we think is really
good and then we clip at that score and
when we eventually beat that then we
just keep going up with that
clip. Does that make sense?
So, we just like pick a score with some
headroom.
This is on the old logging uh branch as
well. Bet has been working on updating
all the ends to the new
logging. I actually shouldn't touch this
one in particular because bet has a PR
on this.
do
enduro. Uh, okay. This doesn't get used.
This was from earlier.
Day is
completed. What do we expect that this
is going to
be? Oh, this is like perfect linear,
isn't it?
Yeah. 10. We'll give it 10. Hey,
welcome. So, we'll just arbitrarily say
that if you complete 10 days, then
you've won because there's no win
condition in this game.
Yeah, we'll just arbitrarily say that
this is the uh the
max because we need something we need
some way to put all these uh all these m
on the same
graph and 10 days is pretty
good. Okay, what other ends do we have
here? Uh, cart pull. Cart pull super
easy.
Max steps termination. And then where's
score? Bet. Did you not add
score? Dang it. Bet.
Is there a max where is it termination
steps or
something? Max steps.
probably need to
cast. All right. So, we'll do something
like this for
now. This one's done. Let's run. Let me
make sure carpole actually is a working
end.
It should train like
instantly. Oh, bed is already on here.
That's
weird. Oh, it's cuz he doesn't have the
CUDA colonel. That's fine.
How's it not have
Okay, so this needs a few
things
seed. Uh yeah, this is on the wrong
process. There we go.
Oh, I know what that is.
Okay. Yeah, this is jank.
Um, yeah, this is super jank, but there
are limitations right now on how many
M's you can run because I have to fix
some CUDA
kernels. Uh, however, that should have
worked. That definitely should have
worked. Oh, but he has all these
freaking separate params on here. Yeah,
you don't need any of these, my guy. The
only one you need is total time
steps, which is what's this?
130 13
million. That's funny.
20 million step cart pull
run. So that doesn't look like it trans.
Fix
gamma. There we go. It's always just
gamma.
We should be happy with
that. Get out of here,
bot. All right.
Next up will
be we can probably do connect four,
right? Needs to be fixed.
Hang on. That should have worked,
shouldn't it
have? Oh, I bet it's this thing,
right? Oh, no. No, I'm dumb here. I'm
dumb. I'm really dumb. Okay, this
is
88 4 and then if they're eight M's, each
one should get 512
mobile. We need to fix action space for,
right?
There's like something I did screwy with
action
space. This runs
and connect 4 seems like it trains as
well. Totally
fine. Now, this is uh this is going to
be really crappy gamma,
though. So, let's do
gamma. Let's do that. That should make
it way easier to learn.
Wrong block,
dummy. Moa just takes forever to report
stats. Otherwise, it should be fine.
Connect four is training
nicely radiant victory. Yep. This is in
30 mil step. This is now winning.
Perfect. Now, are we going to get stuck
here? Are we going to actually full self
That's a full solve. We're happy with
that. Over
99. This can be 30
mil. Cool. Uh moa
is Yeah. I don't need to even have it
run this
long. Okay, we're happy with
that hardware.
Maybe don't really need these on
Neptune.
Let's get ourware to
work. T 2048 should be
fine. Wait, isn't
2048? Uh, okay. Now I'm curious why this
is broken because Oh, each of these has
a ton of agents though,
right? See have four agents each. So,
this should be 512.
I thought
Um yeah, this just doesn't
recompile. Okay, so here's our
That's optimizing.
and do tower climb.
Maybe 2048
MS. Oh, hang
on. Pretty epic you do these live
streams. Thank
you. Hey, Olivia.
Uh, pretty epic. Yeah. So, I It's just
do all the dev streams live. I don't
know why not,
right? It's kind of just good all
around. Um, people getting into
programming get to see like a lot of the
decisions I make live. People getting
into RL get a lot of information. People
who have questions about Puffer Lib get
stuff answered live. Support gets done
live. people get interested in
contributing, I review uh contributions
live. So like if you PR stuff and want
code review, I do that
live. It's just good all around. And you
kind of just get used to live streaming
everything very quickly.
Hey, welcome
a we are currently just attempting
to get all of the M's training
um with like reasonable per and then I'm
going to get it so that all the M's
report a normalized score from 0 to one
so that I can just have like fun script
to launch all the different training
runs and then give me back perf on all
of
them, which really shouldn't take that
long. I think the only uh the only
environment that takes a really long
time to train is neural 3. Everything
else is like pretty good. And that's
just neurommo3 is hard. That's all it
is.
This should be
2048. Now, there's still a whole bunch
of like bugs and limitations and things
in the dev branch that I have to
address, but I've kind of been doing
that for the last couple weeks, and I'm
a little tired of it. So, uh, I figured
we'd have a little fun today with this.
So, I'm going to do this until 10,
another 40 minutes or whatever, and then
I'm going to get breakfast, get some
exercise, and then I'm going to come
back. And hopefully the goal today is
that we have like good, nice performance
on all of these different runs. We have
all the plots on uh we have like all the
different metrics on one plot or
whatever. Maybe not all of them. Maybe
we don't put neural MMO 3 on just cuz
it's
like all the experiments take 5 minutes
and then neural MMO 3 takes 3
days. So, we'll see about that one.
I just do this. Does it just
work? Thank
you. Okay, so this just works now. So
squared didn't work before, which was
really concerning because squared's a
very easy end. And now it just
works. Hey Nant, welcome.
Man, I like getting the regular streams
in as well cuz then people realize that
I'm like always live and we get regular
viewers. I've seen uh Nishant and Aash
have been here quite a while it
seems. I do actually have plans for
um there's a there's a new puffer
facility uh and I I'm going to have a
very nice streaming setup there.
Shoot. I do I am realizing I'm going to
have to reinstall this server to do
that, but it'll
work. Then we'll have like very regular
streams
because the whole schedule is like zero
friction.
Okay. So, tower
climb is not working. Everything else is
working. Tower climb is not
working. I think that it was working and
crashed though,
right? Let's log this. And
then let's just see if we do better than
Spencer's default grams just by like
deleting them. just using our defaults.
And then what did he have as
gamma
98? So we'll give him
gamma we'll give him that actually seems
high. Let's do
that. Okay. So now we'll have two
different tower climb runs going.
Yeah, I think this is a stability issue,
not like a learning issue because this
is 82% solve and then I'm pretty sure
this will crash down.
Discord Discord uh
discord.gg/puffer. I am open to
commissioning um like basically stream
overlay like you know the things where
you just like partition all the windows
nicely. But uh I mean as you can see
this is more technical stream. It's not
like gaming themed. But hey, if you do
stuff that would make sense for that,
then
sure. I am interested in getting like a
couple nice scene um like scene
overlays. I usually have like this one
and then like a vertical one for
reviewing papers, but whatever really
makes sense with uh screen
space. Okay, so this is pretty funny.
Um, I just pasted my default
hyperp and we outperform Spencer's
defaults like that are manually tuned
for this.
Um, we'll see whether this is stable or
not. We may as well let this finish
running for the two
minutes. But yeah, I think the new Muan
stuff is really, really good.
Like I've had a few people tell me that
um they didn't see very much out of
Muan, but I honestly just don't think
that they're like they bothered retuning
hypers. Like people have over optimized
to Adam because with puffer right we can
run so many experiments and we can
retune stuff. Like we got a massive
massive difference with the new
optimizer. It literally makes RL feel
like a different field. Like me just
deleting all the tuned hyperparameters
and using whatever defaults and having
stuff still train that is unheard of in
RL.
Yeah. So, actually you can see this one
is crashing back down. We'll see how
this one does. If this actually crashes
later or not, but so far this has been
fine. It's like stable 92.
What else do we need? We haven't
done triple triad, right?
this and then gamma
five. Honestly, the only thing that's
really left as the main impediment is uh
gamma's kind of evil.
It's not even that bad because it's like
it's pretty stable now. But um if you
have like a very long horizon continuous
end where you have like a card game, you
do have to set gamma or it just won't
work. That's really nowhere near as big
of a limitation though as it used to be.
I guess we'll have to do sensitivity
analysis to see like do you really have
to fine-tune gamma or do you just kind
of have to set it to something
reasonable?
But yeah, look, just changing this gamma
and like these hypers. This is pretty
good. Oh, are we
crashing? I can't
tell. No, we're
fine. We're fine.
Oh, we we did crash a little bit
here. Yeah. Okay. So, there is
instability for sure. There is
instability. We're going to have to see
how this works.
Um, we will have to see how this works
once I fix experience buffer
stuff. Yeah, this is like fully crashed,
but we get 92% for quite a good while
before
that. How is triple triad?
Okay, that's a very nice smooth curve,
right? It's a very smooth curve.
Do I have art stuff in my Discord
here? No.
I presume that I presume that means
actually was bought because if not bot
would have heard discord channel and
posted most
likely. That's
funny. Does anybody know if um because
I've had like a lot of these. Does
anybody know if it's like actually
artists just trying to automate their
advertising or if it's a
scam? Because I've definitely gotten
ones that seem like it was literally
just artists trying to advertise, which
is like that's chill, right?
Okay, so this is nice. We still have
this instability. See, I think that this
is probably down to the experience
buffer being screwy, though. I think
that's probably down to that because
we've never seen this type of a thing
happen before. And uh it's probably the
way that we redid the experience
buffer. Okay. Did I miss any
environments? Blastar. I did miss
Blaster.
last hour. I probably do both of these.
This little break. 2048.
The main thing is the gamma. I bet this
will work. I bet it'll just work. Um,
we'll run it two
ways. All right.
Olivia, if you're not a bot, it's
discord.gg/puffer. You can feel free to
drop stuff in there.
because I am actually in the market for
uh some new overlays. Well, some
overlays. I don't really have any
I guess it's BP
Does this not give us
stats or does it just take a while?
Uh, this doesn't give us
stats.
Bet. Hey, bro. Can you tell me how I can
prepare for MLA AI? If it's general ML
and AI, go take CS231N with the lectures
by either Justin or Andre
uh and Andred. And if you are interested
in RL specifically, I have a quick start
guide on puffer.ai. It's just in the
blog.
This is a lot more accessible for RL
specifically than a lot of the content
out there. Though it does assume that
you have uh enough basic uh deep
learning background to be able to read
some blogs and
papers. Okay, so this one doesn't print
and this one does print. Oh, no it does.
It just takes forever. zero knowledge of
ML. Uh
CS231N and if CS231N is too hard, then
you're going to have to start from like
a lot of basics. It really depends on
where you are and like where you are in
life and stuff, right? Because I don't
know if I'm talking to um you know,
somebody pivoting in their 30s or if I'm
talking to somebody who's in high
school, right?
Um if you're relatively early on and you
haven't gotten the math background or
anything like you just need uh
basic really only different derivative
you don't even need integral calculus
but um multivariable differential
calculus and linear algebra and you need
to be very comfortable working with
matrices and tensors and then
CS231m followed by specialization to
whatever specific sub area of
AI. If you have some math background, if
you've, you know, done some sort of
university engineering math or whatever,
and you have some good programming
background, then just 231 in into
whatever you want to work
on, knowledge of C and C++, two years in
webdev. I depending on how much math
you've taken, then you can probably just
do CS231N and start working on some
projects.
That's the usual
go-to. Having a low-level engineering
background actually will help you a lot
though because most like AI researchers
are very very bad with low-level
development. It's actually uh one of my
strongest assets at the moment and
something I just picked up fairly
recently. You do at least need to have
some understanding though of the math
behind it. It's not that much math,
especially for like an engineering
discipline. It's really not that much
math, but you do need to pick up a
little bit of it.
You'll want to catch up in morning or
afternoon tomorrow. Yes, Spencer. I'm
around tonight. I'm around all day
tomorrow.
Also, I got um I don't know what like
good solve rate is on tower climb and
there's some bugs with the experience
buffer and dev that make it occasionally
crash all the way, but I literally just
deleted all your hyper params, pasted in
the defaults, and got
92%. It was at like 89 with uh with your
hypers before that.
I think that you probably had it full
solved at some point. Um, but we're
going to just have to like fix some
stuff with the experience
buffer. Never had full self. Okay. I
don't know what your best was then, but
um, literally like the default hypers
are pretty damn good for almost
everything. The only thing I haven't
seen them work on is neural MMO
3, but yeah, we have a lot of cool stuff
we can chat about doing here. Um, I'm
really happy with all the new stuff in
dev. They're just like a few rough edges
I got to sand off, but we're really well
positioned to do a lot of cool stuff uh
for Puffer on the open source side and
also
professionally. High8s for easy. Is it
on easy by default?
cuz whatever it is on default I got
92. Okay. Well, we got 92 and we got 92
very quickly into
training. Blast star kind of works. It
looks like kind
of I'll have to ask about this.
Um, is that all the
M's? CPR. We don't really have good
baselines on yet. Grid I have to fix,
but other than that,
yeah,
42, I think I just start going through
all of these and adding normalized score
variables to everything. So, I just go
commit whatever I put on
here. Yeah.
Actually, I might even have
details this going to mess with my box
day and I think this evening should be
fine. 8 8:30
ET. Uh, that's about the latest I can
do, but yeah, that should work.
I also have to reinstall mine because I
put Abuntu server on it. Um, and this
box is going to end up being my probably
going to end up being my personal
desktop at the new
facility. Unless I just take the box
that I'm on currently for
that. I'll have to see.
Worst case tomorrow afternoon praying I
can get mine working. So the thing that
you got to know with that Spencer right
it's the Nvidia open drivers. So when
you go you have to add the PPA right and
then you'll uh Ubuntu drivers should
pick it up should pick up like Nvidia
whatever and then there are two options.
One is not open and the other is open.
It says that it's compatible with not
open, but it's not. It's only works with
open. Otherwise, you just black like
everything just screws up. If you're in
a if you're in a Windows setup, then
completely different
story. I uh I forgot about that. Yeah.
No, I just stuck two on mine. I got sick
of dealing with Windows, so I just
stripped Windows off of everything.
Heck, I got my new laptop in. I haven't
even opened my new laptop yet, but I'm
thinking I'm going to even just stick a
buntu on
that Windows. I'm surprised that there
aren't drivers like just working for
that's really weird.
But yeah, I figured out that if I uh if
I don't have Windows on my PC, then I
can't play the most addicting games that
are the most likely to cause me to
spiral out of working good
hours. No League, no
Valerant. I don't know. I got hit with
an Overwatch bug for a few weeks. Um but
then like aside from that, it's been
pretty consistent on the work. are great
cookie rewards. Yeah, the problem though
is I can't stop playing
them. Like, there's been a ton of cool
new stuff added to Runescape, but if I
start playing that, there goes all of
2025.
Literally, it's freaking
heroin. All right, see you, Spencer.
the heck.
Huh? Token must have
expired. One moment.
Oh yeah, it literally just expired.
Get me a new token.
Okay, we are good with that.
Oh, eight.
this. All
right. So
now though I probably only have a few
minutes here
uh though I will be back after breakfast
and exercise and all that.
Um we really want to start getting
normalized uh normalized score data into
stuff. So let's just do
Dude, I'm realizing I so I got to order
my
full stream setup stuff to the new
place. So, I'll have to do a little
looking into if I want to buy the same
stuff or not, or if I want to upgrade
even more.
Okay, so this does not print out
normalized
for even though it's there because I
didn't add to the
binding.
Let's fix that.
It seems
nice. We might want to reorder these
metrics and stuff, but like
Cool. We like this.
same thing with
enduro normalized score
uh normalized score should not be zero.
Oh,
I think that this is what I'm going to
do for um a good chunk of today though
is I'm just going to like get all this
stuff playing
nicely and uh like have nice stats, have
all the M's just like good, consistent,
all
that. And I got to sync up with Bet on
what he's done so I don't duplicate any
of his
work. Bet's been great for like doing
these types of things.
Yeah, look at that. So now you have like
this nice norm score. So if I like run a
bunch of these M's, I can put them all
in the same plot and it'll just work.
So this normalized score here should be
linked
to days
completed and at a ratio of 1 to 10 I
believe.
Oh, there it is. That's
correct. Okay.
Yeah, captain. I got it working very
nicely. Let me What do you Let's see
what you think about
this. So, before we had all these width
statements, right? And it was nice
because you could clearly see like what
block is profiling what, but it also
really interrupted your ability to read
the core code. It was like really
disruptive. And also there was just a
lot of profiling code. So what I did now
is you just add uh profile tags like
this. Note there's not even a decorator
here
anymore. Uh so you just do profile here.
And the only little wrinkle is you have
to add this nest equals true to the
first one after it so that you tell it
that hey we're going to keep using this
one. But after that you just uh every
time you switch to a new profiling block
you just switch the tag and every single
line gets profiled. It's actually a
little faster little lower overhead than
the previous one because it only has to
call synchronize once, not at the start
and at the end of each
block. And the code is not all indented
under a profile block anymore. It looks
like very reasonable code, very normal
code. And uh yeah, that's what I have.
And the whole code for this is right
here. This is this is the entire
profiler. It just basically makes a
stack of profilers. And then you can
tell it every time you profile whether
you want to switch the profiler, which
is the default, or whether you want to
keep profiling under the current thing,
but also now add a subprofiler.
So this replaces like I don't know 3x
this amount of profiling mode.
It's
completed. Yeah,
perfect. More readable code, easier to
follow since you don't need decorators.
Yeah, I think it makes it like very
marginally more difficult to see which
profile tag is applying to which code.
Um, but it makes the whole code way
easier to
read. And that is my uh my call. So, I'm
going to go get breakfast. I'll be back
doing this for the whole rest of the day
as soon as I get some food and get some
exercise. For folks watching, puffer.ai
for all the things. Please star the
GitHub. We are like a few stars away
from it going up to 2K, so that would be
awesome. Join the Discord to get
involved. All that. And uh I'll be back
with more devs